# SimpleEgg
A Bukkit/Spigot plugin to allow capture and conversion of animals to spawn eggs.

This plugin will be available on BukkitDev soon.

SimpleEgg is a free, open source Bukkit/Spigot plugin that makes it possible to capture animals and convert them into spawn eggs. The plugin works by listening for animals to get hit by projectile eggs. If a player throws an egg and hits an animal and has five diamonds in their inventory, the five diamonds are removed, and the animal is replaced with a spawn egg. This spawn egg is special, however. Normally, spawn eggs spawn whatever creature it is for with a random pool of characteristics. SimpleEgg however remembers the characteristics of the animals captured. A tamed wolf with a purple collar will appear identical after being captured and respawned. Same owner, same tame state, same collar color. The same goes for any animal with special data. Only two exceptions of capturable animals exist, bats and squids, and I hope to change this in the future.

A few issues I should point out - I will remove these as they are resolved (or if they are resolvable):
- Horse speed and jump height are not preserved through captures. I think I can fix the jump height, but because Bukkit/Spigot has no API for speed, I do not know if I will ever be able to make speed work without putting a lot of focus on NMS, which I try to avoid if at all possible.
- Horses on occasion don't have their age properly stored. It appears to be a Bukkit/Spigot problem, as it is only a few horses out of a whole batch that would randomly have this issue. They initially spawn and render as adults, and are rideable like normal. However when captured, SimpleEgg goes to grab their age, which Bukkit is reporting back as a child, and not an adult. Then when the horse is spawned back, it again renders as an adult, but behaves as a child. The horse can be fed to accelerate its growth as if it were a child, and then it will be usable again. Or alternatively, the horse can be left to grow naturally, and it will be usable again.
